---
layout: post
title: ICM Week 8
date: 2017-10-31 04:58:26.000000000 -04:00
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- ICM
tags:
- DOM
- Image Processing
- NYU-ITP
- p5 Sound
- p5.js
meta:
  _edit_last: '1'
author:
   Beverly




---
<p>This week we focused on video and sound. The video/imaging processing component is through DOM library and then there is a separate library for sound. I wanted to combine both of them to make a synth that you control with your webcam. I know the sounds are choppy and awful sounding. Once I closed more tabs and tested the sounds individually it sounded like a normal sine wave, so I think my computer/Chrome was struggling to handle all of the code.</p>
<p>Here's a video of it in action below &amp; you can play with it <a href="https://beverlychou.com/ICM/W8-p5-webcam-synth/">on my website here</a>.</p>
<p><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/240632207" width="442" height="400" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe></p>
<p><!--more--></p>
<p>I basically started with a very similar sketch as the one that Dan Shiffman made in the <a href="https://youtu.be/m1G6WBvrOBE">"Checkbox Mirror"</a> video. And then I wanted to create an active area that would cause sounds to play when the pixels (instead of checkboxes) were activated. In lines 60-77 you can see where I've created code to select the active pixels (making them red) and then playing different tones based on the pixel's horizontal position within the active area. I used a pentatonic scale, hoping it would sound nice no matter what was played, and divided the canvas into 6 sections kind of like a piano.</p>
<p>Now that I am writing this, I think the oscillator sounds are playing so poorly because if every pixel in a section is activated they will all play at once, even if it is the same tone. I think I'll need to debug it more & talk to someone else, but now I'm thinking I'll need to use boolean values to activate a section instead of doing it pixel by pixel. </p>
<p>My full code is below.</p>
<script src="https://gist.github.com/bevchou/71c5c3895104a21516b071d0818d6351.js"></script>
